410 Sanskrit Gai maar. ( § 664

we—t'to speak’ is Atm. in the following senses:—( 1 ) मासन
or ‘showing brightness ( proficiency in );' जाखे wea ‘is adept in
the Sastra,’ ( 2 ) उपसंमा्षा or ‘conciliating or coaxing’ (generally
preceded by उष ); yraTguaga सात्वयतीत्यर्थः; (3) ज्ञान or ‘know-
ledge’ ज्ञास बद्ते ‘knows the Sastra;’ (4) यन्न or ‘effort, toil;’
क्षिते wae ‘labours in the field,’ (5) faafa or ‘disagreement,
guarrel,’ (generally preceded by वि in this sense ); feagra; परस्परं
fragurarat शाल्लाभाम्‌ ‘of mutually conflicting Sastras;’ and
(6) उषमन्श्रण or ‘coaxing, requesting ;’ दातारं उपवदते ‘praises the
donour,’ &c, with संप्र 1४ is Atm. in the sense of ‘distinct and
loud speech (as that of men gathered together ),’ संप्रवदन्ते बाह्मणः
‘the Brihmsnas are speaking aloud together,’ but संप्रवदन्ति
पक्षिणः; arg संप्रबद्भ्ति ऊुक्कुटाः ‘oh beantiful one, the cocks are
crowing,’ with अनु it is Atm. when used intrasitively; agaqer
कठः Serres ‘the Katha Bribmana imitates ( speaks on the side
of or recites like) the ए ०1829 Brahmana,’ but उक्तं अनुवाति
‘reproduces what is said;’ अनुवदति बीणा ‘the lute imitates the
notes (indistinctly);’ with (aw it is optionally Atm. in the sense
of ‘disagreeing or disputing ,’ (aqqafea-7a Yat: the physicians
disagree; with अष्‌ it is Atm. in the sense of ‘reviling, reproach-
ing, refusing,’ when the fruit of the action refers to the agent,
अपवदते धनकामो अन्यायं ‘greedy of wealth reviles others unjustly,”
so न्यायमपकद्ते ‘refuses justice;’ but अपवदति ‘reproaches’ ( when
the result does not refer to the agent), cf. नर्तोष्यपबदेद्धिप्राव
Manu. IV. 236; when the fruit of the action is -indicated ag
referring to the agent the Atm. is optional; eaqq अपवदति-त षा
( Sid. Kau. on Pan. 1. 3. 77); ag with gq in the sense of ‘advis-
ing or speaking stealtbily,’ when used transitively, is Atm.
fuer उपवदते ‘gives advice to his pupil,’ परदारान्‌ उपवदते ‹ speak:
stealthily with another's wife.

{ मासनोपसंमावाज्ञानयनिभस्युपमन्त्णेषु ag: | HATA ABB j
अनोरकर्मकात्‌ । विमाषा विप्रलापे | AEE: | Pan. 1. 3. 47-50, 73.
