160 SANSKRIT GRAMMAR, T § 259-260:

§ 259. * Two nouns alike in from in the Loc, and meaning
‘something that can be seized,’ or in the Instrumental, mean-
ing ‘ weapons or things used as weapons,’ may be compounded
in a Bab. when the sense is ‘the fight thus began’ and the idea
of an exchange of action is to be implied. In such compounds
the final vowel of the first member is lengthened ud that of
the second is changed to gz. The compounds so formed are of
the nature of Avyayibb&vas and are indeclinable. The final च
takes Guna enbstitnte before the final इ. te. 9. केशेषु SRG YE-
त्वदं युद्धं प्रवृत्तं केशाश ‘ a battle in which the warriors fight.
seizing each other’s hair’; qudsa दण्डेश्व agra युद्धं प्रवत्तं दण्डा-
दण्डि; similarly adr, हस्ताहस्ति, चादूबाहाषि, gaargate, &c.;.
but if the instruments used by both the parties be not the same,
no compound is possible; gargafe will, therefore, be wrong.

Obs,—( a ) The following words aleo change their final to इ
at दण्डो यस्मिन्प्रहरणे तद्‌ दिदण्डि; similarly Maas, उभा-उभया
wate, उभाहस्नि, उनण्हस्ति, उभा-उमया-पाणि, oarg: &५.

§ 260, { The following Babuvribia are laid down as irre-
gular. शोभनं प्रातरस्य Bua: 7. ‘one having an anspicious
morning or a day having an gupicious dawn’; see Bhatti, II.
49. शोभनं श्वः अस्य सुभ्वः ‘having an auspicious morrow;’
airaa frater सुदिवः ‘one who has passed a happy day’, sniftg
कुक्षिरस्य शारिङ्क्षः ‘having a round belly;? aaarorqrer wata-
‘four-cornered, quadrangular,’ एण्या (of a female black deer )
इब पादौ अस्य एणीपद्‌ः. अजपदः, पो्ठस्य इब पादो अस्य Ara: having
the feet like those of a bull’.

* aa तेनेदमिति सख्ये । Pao IL 2. 27. सप्तम्यन्ते बहणदिषये सख्यः
षदे तृतीयान्ते च प्रहरणविषये इदं TY भटटलमिव्यथं समस्येते कर्मव्यतिहारे
यास्ये स बहुत्रीहिः । Sid. Kau. ।

६ अन्येषामपि टर्यते । इच्‌ कर्मव्यतिहरि | Pin. VI. 3. 137. ए. 4,
127. तिषठद्रुपम्‌ तिभ्विच्पत्ययस्य प।ठादन्ययी भविखमन्ययत्वं च 1 Sid, Kan.
ओ्खणः | Pin. VI, 4. 146.

{खश्रावद्न्बडदिवक्षारिकुक्षचतुरभेणीपदाजपवपोषपदाः। Pan. ए. 4.120,
