he studied as such. To quote the words of the learne .
Doctor again ‘its study possesses «nm ecucagi nal value on,
the sam. kind as that of Euclid and oot much inferior to
- 1 17 degree. For to make up a particular from the mind’
of the student has to go throuzh a certain process ’of-
synthesis.’’e To split up, therefore, a géneral rule of the’
ancient Indian grammarians into a numter of the
praticular cases it comprehends, as is done by some’
,  Todern writers on sanskr:t grammar, 15 not to build up
। but to destrov, not to simplify the difficulties of the.
student but to embarrass him. For a Grammar, then, to
be precticul and correct, in my humble cp.nion, it must
be rased on indigenous words understood and_ studied in
the.r genuine scientific sprit. In writing the various
chapters of this book (except the one on the ‘Conjugation
ˆ of Verbs’) [ have closely followed Panini as explaine:,
by Bhattoii Dikshit (the Ka-hika of Vamana being als ,
Occasionally referred to). Miany of the rules given 2 `
* translations of the Sutras of Panini, much matter being!
thus compressed into a small compass. The original Sutres
where necessary, are given in foot-notes as help w
॥ memory. Sandhis and declensions are very fully treatec.
Compcunds which play such an important part in San-krt
literature, and wuaich, yet, are very summarily disposed
of in many grammars, have received sp-cial atte tion!
almost everything in the Siddhanta Kaumudi being’
‘ncluded. The formation of feminine bases which is not
cousidered separately in other grammars has been treated’
of here in a separate chapter (VI). The seventh chapter
deals with the addhita affixes (i. e. affixes formin,
secondary nom:na! 2:९9) which, for the convenience of the
sstudent and the occassional referer, have been arranged
here in an alphabetical order, each followed by a numbe
of the derivatives formed by it. The question of gende;
which so much perplexes the foreigner has been deal.
with in the eighth chapter, while the ninth treats o'
“indeclinables.”’ The first nyne chapters thus form wha’
may be called the first part of the book, in as much =:
they dea! with all that relates to the noun (declinabl
and indeclinable) But a spectal feature of th> pres t,
Grammart is the chapter on the ‘Conjugation of Verbs.:
No part of Sansxrit Grammar is more difficult an
