§ 777} Psmcagy NominaL Bases. 465

fer—this is added toa root with or without any preposition
prefixed toit; सूते stat @ or wa: one who brings forth,
a mother; wx--guq: those who sit in heaven, the gods,
दि पपरन a powerful enemy; qy—sragsy the constellation
of stars callod sAswini,’ नी- सेनानी the leader of an army;
सम्‌ - 2९।ज्‌ tne creator; चि--अध्चिचित्‌ one who consecrates
the ~acred ! 7, ४ householder, नजि--इन्द्र जित्‌ the conqueror of
Tnidra, name vi Ravafa’s son, स्तु-देबस्तुत्‌ he who praises the
gods; g—watHaaq the extractor of Soma juice ; S—FHAST #
भाषारछत्‌ , टीकाङूत्‌, &५. This is alao added to gaz, eger, and.

ax when the object governed by them is prefixed to them; =
agar seeing all; मर्मस्पृञ्च touching the vitals; विश्वसृज्‌ the
creator of the universe ;—to अद्‌ and हन्‌ ; क्रव्याद्‌ & flesh-eater,
a demon; wag the Killer of a 87810908 ;—to छाद्‌ changed
. to छद्‌ ; ageeg a garment. Before this affx roots ending in
a nasal lengthen their penultimate; as grya-sTErra tranquil;
तच्‌-प्रतान्‌ one who stretches, &c., except in the case of roots
गम्‌ , नम्‌ , TH, and तन्‌ , which drop their nasal and then obey
the general rule; अध्वानं गच्छतीति sear atraveller; परि
तनोतीति-परीतत्‌ stretching on all sides; gaa yielding, poor;
संयत्‌ well restrained, &c.; the ar of हास is changed to इ
before this; first शास्तीति-भित्र शिष्‌ one who gives advice to
his friend ; आश्लिष्‌ a blessing, गू forms गिर्‌ epcech; the roots
WI, TE, and exe drop their nasa] and insert q before their
final; वाह भत्‌ dropping down from a vehicle, उखाल्रव्‌ dropping
down from a vessel; पर्णष्वत्‌ falling down from s leaf; before
this affix दिव changes its g to दु and other roots change their
ष॒ tos; naga (अक्षेदीव्वति) a gambler; वे-ऊः $ weaver;
अब--ऊः a protector; this forms Vriddhi with a preceding अः;
जन + ऊ = जनौ: the protector of the people, ज्वरू--जुर्‌ feverish,
त्वर्‌-तृर्‌ swift-going; before this affix q or w following ¢ Is
dropped; qes—ax ४७०००९१; ya—ax hurting, injuring; अक्षर
what troubles, १. ९. presses heavily on the axle of a carriage,
hence the cart-load: the following words are irregularly

H. 8. G. 80
