8८८, . * ,
30 SansKErr GRAMMAR. ^ { § 48

(c) *Visargs, preceded by इ or उ and not belonging tos
termination, is changed to q except in the case of जहुः -oftet,
if followed by a hard consonant of the guttural of the labial
class : fa: < प्रत्यहं = निष्पत्यहम्‌ without obstacle. आविष्कृतम्‌ dis-
closed; gsHay a bad action; but age कृतम; sie: करोति as the
Visarga is substituted for स्‌ a term. so arg: Bar and not
HAST. WAGs: is an exception.

(4) + face optionally retains 108 स्‌ when followed by द्‌,
ख्‌, १, OF फ; तिरः करोति or तिरस्करोति hides or scorns.

द्धिः, चिः and चतुः; all of them adverbs showing frequency,
change their Visarga to gq optionally under the same circum-
stances}; दिष्कसेति or हि.-करोति does twice; but चतुष्कपालम्‌ hav-

ing four ११४३ ( whore चतुः is not an adverb ),

~ ८) § The ending इः or उः of a word changes its visarga to
4 optionally under tha same circumstances when the presence
of the following word is necessary for the completion of the

sense; सर्षिष्करोति OF सपिःकरोति turns into ghee; धलनुष्रोति or
धनुःकरोति makes a bow; but तिष्टतु ata: few स्वष्ठकद म्‌, as there is

7 no connection here between the words सर्पि; and रिव.

And necessarily when at the end of the first member of a
compound; as afqsgfeeer a pot for clarified butter; but परम-
aid: कुण्डिका ° big ghee-pot ( as the word सर्पिः 18 an utiara
pade ).

(f) Visarga coming after the अ of a word other than an

. indeclinable and forming the first member of a compound is

॥ . age to स when followed by a derivative of the roots क

| | कस्‌, aod by कंस, Ha, पाहा, कुशा and काणि x ८. $ अयस्कारः

५ iron-smith; अयस्कामः one who desires iron, अयस्कंसम्‌ an it

4 pots भयस्पाजम्‌; अयस्छुभा a bridle; अर्यम्कर्णीं # kind of iron pt
। * इदुपधस्य चाप्रत्ययस्य Pan. VIEL, 3. 41.

†विरसोऽन्यतरस्याम्‌ | २६०. VIII. 3. 42.

† दिजिश्वदुतिनि कृत्वोर्धं । ८४४. VIIL. 3, 43. ,
‘ § agai: सामर्थ्ये 1 नित्यं समासेऽुत्तरपदस्यस्य । ६०. VIII. 3. 44-482 `
: अनः ककमिकेसकुम्भपात्रकुङाकर्णीष्वनन्ययस्य | २४०. VIIL 3. 46.
