. ConscaatTiox or Vxrna, 239 .
“2@) Two sets of personal terminations, the one called ‘ Paras,
anaipads,’ the other ‘ Atmanepada.’ Some rvots take exclusively
_ the Par. terminations and some the Atm. ones; while there are
- others which take either. Several roote again, though Paras-
. maipadi, become Atmanepadi and tice versa, when preceded by
‡ certain prepositions or in particular senses. These will be con-
sidered in s separate chapter.
§ 379. Primitive verbs or roots are those which originally.
\ exist in the language, while dorivative verbs are those which ;
may be derived from a parent stock—a root or a noun.
॥ § 380. Every verb, in Sanskrit. whether primitive orderiva- `
4 tive, may be conjagated in the ten tenses and moods given above, #
८ ०) Transitive verbs are conjugated in the Active and
Passive voices and intransitive verbs in the active and the 2
; Impersonal form. 4
] § 381. In each tense and mood there are three nambers, *
} singular, dual and plural, with three persons in each.
§ 382. In four of the tenses and moods given above, viz, the ॥
॥ Present, the Imperfect, the Imperative and the Potential, the verds
undergo peculiar modifications ( विकरण ) and these are therfore ॥
‘ called Conjugational (arfargs)* or special tenses and moods; and
| # Burietly the term Sirvadhétuka ( belonging to the form of
‘ the verbal base ) is given by Panini to the terminations of all
: the tenses and moods; except those of the Perfect and the
Benedictive, and to the affixes distinguished by an indicatory इ *
C शित्‌ ) ४. ०. the various conjugational sign: of the 9 classes ( ex-
cept that of theeighth ), and the terminations of the Present Parti-
ciple Pars, and Atm. All other verbal affixes ¢. ०. the conju-
gational signs of the 8th and 10th classes, the affixes added
॥ to form the causal base and a few denominatives, the affixes
` स्य, at, स, and य added to the bases of the two futures, the
Desiderative and the Aor., and the Passiveand the Frequentative
-  -geapectively, and those forming the Past Participle ( Act. and
. _ _ Pass, ), the infinitive and the verbal indeclinables, and some
* {others are called Ardbadbatuka, the remaining Noa-Conjo-
