perplexing and therefore more calculated, to tire out the
patience of the young student, than the coniugation of
Verbs.’ It is, therefore, written with a special attention
to the student’s difficulties. The general rules given ate
amply :llustrated by. example. Almost all the rcots
which are likely to puzzle the student fn ccnjugatine
thea, ina particular tense or mood have beer fuliy
2. ed Inthe eleventh chapter, all the verbs which
be their pada when preceded by particular preposi-
4 sare given nan alphibetical order with illustrations
“\vhere necessary. Two more chapters, one on syntax and ‘ ॥
tre other on prosody, have also been added. The chapter |,
on syntax contains almost everything given in the first |
20 chapters of Prof. Apte’s ‘Guide to Sanskrit Composi- = `
tion,’ the same original havine been followed by the both.
The chapter on prosody is based on the Chhandomanjari
and the Vrittaratnakara. The book closes with a list of
"verbs (added at the suggestion of my publishers) contain-
ing almust all the rocts in Sanskrit and wiving the 3rd
pers. sing. in the important tenses and moods. .
Thus it will be seen that I have spared no pain `
make the book as useful and as complete as possit
Also sucn of the technical terms used in original Sansk
Grammurs as the student always meets with in Sanskar
commentaries, are given in their proper places with thes
explanations. ^ ,
॥
In writing this Grammar, I have cecasionally used ;
Monier Williams’sg. : Kielhorn’s and Whitney’s gram- ।
mars to all of whomI make ample acknowledgements. }
My special thanks are due to Dr. Bhandarkar whose two
b..oks of Sanskrit were my chief guide in writing out the
chapter on the ‘Conjugation of Verbs,’ and to the late
Prof Apte to whose excellent ‘Guide to Sanskrit Com-
position,’ I am indebted for some of the :llustrations
given inthe Thirteenth chapter. I have also to thank
iy triend Mr. U :dhavacharya Ainapure for his occasional
help and for the pains he took in preparing for this
Grammar the list of Verbs added at the end and carrying
1६ through the press.
This being th: first attempt of the Author to bring
into one volume the various departments of Sanskrit
