516 Sansxert Grammar. [ $ 911-012
‘time, and completeness or incompleteness in the progress of
the action, The Banskrit infinitive, on the other hand, cau
never be made the subject of a verb, admits of no Accusative
before it, and cau only express indeterminate time and incom-
plete action. Wherever it occurs, it must be considered as the
object, and never the subject of some verb expresced or under-
stood. As the object of the verb, it may be regarded as
equivalent to a verbal substantive, in which the force of two
oases, an <Acousative and Dative, is inherent and which
differs from other substantives in its power of governing a case.
Its use as a substantive, with the force of the Accusative case,
sorresponds to our use of the Latin infinitive; thus तत्‌ सरं sit
इच्छामि ‘I desire to hear al) that,’ ‘id audire capio,’ where wg
\ and audire are both equivalent to Accusative. Similarly, iy
भङ्क्ता ‘she began to weep,’ and मही जेतुं आरभे, he began to conquer
the earth, where महीजयं आस्म, he began the conquest of the earth,
would be equally correct.”

(6) “Bopp considers the terminstion of the infinitive to be
the Accusative of the suffix tw ( § 458. Obs. ), and it is certain
that in the veda other cases of nouns formed with this suffix ip
the sense of infinitives occur; ०. इ. a Dative in tave or tavai, af
from han comes Aantave ‘to kill;’ fr, anu-i envetave, ‘to follow;’
fr, man, mantavat, ‘to think,’ there is also a form in tos generally
in the sense of an Ablative; ¢.g. fr. ६. comes ०1०5 ‹ from going;’ .
fr. han, hantos, a3 in pura hantos, ‘ before killing;’ and a form in
tei corresponding to the indeclinable participle in iva of the
classical language; e.g. fr. han, hatvi ‘ killing,’ fr. bAG bAGtei
being,’ &c. &c,””? Sanskrit Grammar,

§ 912. The infinitive cannot be used as the subject or object
of a verb, abstract nouns supplying its place in this case.
Where, therefore, the itfinitive oocurs in Englich as tue subject
or the object in a sentence, the abstract noun derived from the
