§777 ) Pentany Nomrnar Bass. 455.
slo > rogue; gd@er (a river) sweeping away its banks;
अकष; dashing sgainst, coming in collision with the clouds
as the wind; करीषंकचा blowing away dry cowdung, as a strong
wind or gale. खश्च is added to एज्‌ cau. as in जनमेजयः making
the people tremble with fear; name of a king;—to अस्‌, चे,
aq and हा ‘to go’ after the words घात, ga, तिला and ae
0५००1००८} बातमरजः facing the wind, a kind of deer: syfaqa: a
kitten; तिलंतुदः an oilman; ana grag: causing flatulence
( भाषाः ) a Kind of bean;—to घे and ध्मा after the words स्तन
and नाडी, respectively. स्तनंधयः a taby sucking breast; arfe-
( डीं धमः a goldsmith,—to ax after fay and अर्ष; विधुंतुदः
the afflictor of the moon श) 8६0०; अरुतुद: ( Hate भमाणि
सदतीति ) wounding the vital parts, painfal,—to Tq after
words showing measure as प्रस्थंपचा स्थाली, खारिंपचः कटाहः and
after मित and नख -मितंपखः one who cooks measured corn, 8
miser,; नरस्ंपचा nail-scorcning (as यवायुः );—to esx ond तप्‌
after the words असूर्य and ललाटः; अस्यंपश्याः those who do not
see the sun 8. ¢. the queens ofa king who are shut up in
the harem; कलाटंतपः scorching the forehead;—to eax, मदे and
ध्मा afer gy, इरम्‌ and पामि respectively; guqey of a fierce
aspect, geaq: ligatving; पार्जिधमः 8 road (shrouded in such
darkness that one has to clap one’s hands for driving away
serpents &c. that may bein the way ); to मन्‌ meaning ‘to
consider 0०66९]? ` as, पण्डितंमन्य, & pedant, who considers
himself a Pandita; stfezq: one who considers himself a cow
$ ९. who is very humble; &c.

Ws—is added to any root with ईषत्‌ , दुर्‌ or छु prefixed to it
way the ides of ease ined is Prosont, ईषत्करः done
easily, one wi ¢ ; BHT done easily; so दुःशासन,
git चः दुर फ; y EST

w—is added in the sense of the place or the instrument of the
action or forms abstract noune; & with आ-आक्रः a mine ; खन्‌
with मा, आखनः 8 spade; वण with AT, Array: a place of traffic ;
कष्--निकषः a touch-stone, चर-गोचरः ॐ pasture-ground;
erat: a path; qg—ag: a shoulder, favre: that by which the
